---
title: RapidScat Level 2B Ocean Wind Vectors in 12.5km Slice Composites Version 1.1
created: '2020-11-12T04:02:09.171212'
modified: '2020-11-12T04:02:09.171223'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Earth Science
  - Ocean Winds
  - Oceans
groups: []
csv_url: >-
  https://podaac-tools.jpl.nasa.gov/drive/files/allData/rapidscat/ancillary/revtime.csv
json_url: ''
published: 4

---
This dataset contains the RapidScat Level 2B 12.5km Version 1.1 science-quality ocean surface wind vectors. The Level 2B wind vectors are binned on a 12.5 km Wind Vector Cell (WVC) grid and processed using the Level 2A Sigma-0 dataset. RapidScat is a Ku-band dual beam circular rotating scatterometer retaining much of the same hardware and functionality of QuikSCAT, with exception of the antenna sub-system and digital interface to the International Space Station (ISS) Columbus module, which is where RapidScat is mounted. The NASA mission is officially referred to as ISS-RapidScat. Unlike QuikSCAT, ISS-RapidScat is not in sun-synchronous orbit, and flies at roughly half the altitude with a low inclination angle that restricts data coverage to the tropics and mid-latitude regions; the extent of latitudinal coverage stretches from approximately 61 degrees North to 61 degrees South. Furthermore, there is no consistent local time of day retrieval. This dataset is provided in a netCDF-3 file format that follows the netCDF-4 classic model (i.e., generated by the netCDF-4 API) and made available via FTP and OPeNDAP. For data access, please click on the "Data Access" tab above. This Version 1.1 dataset differs from the previous Version 1 dataset as follows: 1) A new neural network approach for high wind speeds provided rain corrections for the "retrieve_wind_speed" variable for wind speeds in excess of 15 m/s. 2) The data variables containing the number of measurements of each type for each wind vector cell have been corrected; these variables include "number_in_aft", "number_in_fore", "number_out_aft", and "number_out_fore". 3) The "wind_obj" data variable has been corrected to include the proper data for the conditional probability for the objective DIRTH function values. It is advised for users to avoid using the "wind_obj" variable in this dataset since it is minimally applicable and meant primarily for quality assurance; for users who wish to access the objective function values for each ambiguity, it is suggested to use only the "ambiguity_obj" variable. The "wind_obj" variable contains DIRTH probabilities (which are derived form the "ambiguity_obj" objective function values) in the range of 0 to 1 indicating the conditional probability that the true direction is within + or - 2.5 degrees of the retrieved wind direction given the observed backscatter measurements in the cell. If you have any questions, please contact podaac@podaac.jpl.nasa.gov
